# Legislation

Development and data sharing activities are governed by Federal Law. Relevant law, issued between 2007 and 2016 is available in the following sections.

## WRDA 2007 (November, 2007)

The [Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) 2007, Section 2017](https://www.congress.gov/bill/110th-congress/house-bill/1495/text), directed the Corps of Engineers to provide public access to water resources and related water quality data in the custody of the Corps of Engineers.

Text from WRDA 2007 is copied below:

> SEC. 2017. <> ACCESS TO WATER RESOURCE DATA.
>
> (a) In General.--The <> Secretary shall carry out a program to provide public access to water resources and related water quality data in the custody of the Corps of Engineers.
>
> (b) Data.--Public access under subsection (a) shall--
>
> 1.  include, at a minimum, access to data generated in water
>     resources project development and regulation under section 404
>     of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344); and
>
> 2.  appropriately employ geographic information system
>     technology and linkages to water resource models and analytical
>     techniques.
>
> (c) Partnerships.--To the maximum extent practicable, in carrying out activities under this section, the Secretary shall develop partnerships, including cooperative agreements, with State, tribal, and local governments and other Federal agencies.
>
> (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each fiscal year.

## WRDA 2007 Implementation Guidance

[Implimentation guidance on WRDA 2007](https://usace.contentdm.oclc.org/utils/getfile/collection/p16021coll5/id/35785) restates the information from WRDA 2007.

## WIIN Act (December, 2016)

The [WIIN Act (Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act)](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/senate-bill/612/text) amended WRDA 2007.

Key differences between the original WRDA 2007 and and WIIN Act text are discussed in the section on WRDA 2016, which includes the exact same text as the WIIN Act.

Text from the WIIN Act is copied below:

> SEC. 1135. DATA TRANSPARENCY.
>
> Section 2017 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (33
> U.S.C. 2342) is amended to read as follows:
>
> SEC. 2017. ACCESS TO WATER RESOURCE DATA.
>
> (a) In General.--Using available funds, the Secretary shall make
> publicly available, including on the Internet, all data in the custody
> of the Corps of Engineers on--
>
> 1.  the planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of water resources development projects; and
>
> 2.  water quality and water management of projects owned, operated, or managed by the Corps of Engineers.
>
> (b) Limitation.--Nothing in this section may be construed to compel or
> authorize the disclosure of data or other information
> determined by the Secretary to be confidential information, privileged
> information, law enforcement information, national security information,
> infrastructure security information, personal information, or
> information the disclosure of which is otherwise prohibited by law.
>
> (c) Timing.--The Secretary shall ensure that data is made publicly available under subsection (a) as quickly as practicable after the data is generated by the Corps of Engineers.
>
> (d) Partnerships.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may
> develop partnerships, including through cooperative agreements, with
> State, tribal, and local governments and other Federal agencies.

## WRDA 2016 (December, 2016)

The [Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) 2016, Section 2017](https://www.congress.gov/114/plaws/publ322/PLAW-114publ322.pdf) includes the same wording as the WIIN Act from 2016.

Key wording changes from the original WRDA 2007 --> WRDA 2016 include:

- Add text _Using available funds_ in subsection a, removal of _authorization of appropriations, $3,000,000 each year_
- Broad definition of data in section 2 _(planning, design, construction, operation, maintenance)_
- Addition of section b _Limitation_
- Clarity on timing, data should be made publically available _as quickly as practicable_
- Add section d _Partnerships_

Text from WRDA 2016 is copied below:

> SEC. 1135. DATA TRANSPARENCY.
> Section 2017 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007
> (33 U.S.C. 2342) is amended to read as follows:
>
> SEC. 2017. ACCESS TO WATER RESOURCE DATA.
>
> (a) IN GENERAL.—Using available funds, the Secretary shall
> make publicly available, including on the Internet, all data in
> the custody of the Corps of Engineers on—
>
> 1. the planning, design, construction, operation, and
>    maintenance of water resources development projects; and
>
> 2. water quality and water management of projects
>    owned, operated, or managed by the Corps of Engineers.
>
> (b) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section may be construed
> to compel or authorize the disclosure of data or other information
> determined by the Secretary to be confidential information, privileged information, law enforcement information, national security
> information, infrastructure security information, personal information, or information the disclosure of which is otherwise prohibited
> by law.
>
> (c) TIMING.—The Secretary shall ensure that data is made
> publicly available under subsection (a) as quickly as practicable
> after the data is generated by the Corps of Engineers.
>
> (d) PARTNERSHIPS.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary
> may develop partnerships, including through cooperative agreements, with State, tribal, and local governments and other Federal
> agencies.
